¶¶
¶ I was a girl in the village
doing all right ¶
¶ Then I became
a princess overnight ¶
¶ Now I gotta figure out
how to do it right ¶
¶ So much to learn
and see ¶
¶ Up in the castle
with my new family ¶
¶ In a school that's
just for royalty ¶
¶ A whole enchanted world
is waiting for me ¶
- ¶ I'm so excited to be ¶
- ¶ Sofia the First ¶
¶ I'm finding out what
being royal's all about ¶
¶ Sofia the First ¶
¶ Making my way,
it's an adventure every day ¶
¶ Sofia ¶
-¶ It's gonna be my time ¶
-¶ Sofia ¶
¶ To show them all
that I'm Sofia the First ¶
¶¶
Bye, Vivian!
See you at school.
( horse neighs )
Crackle, you
dropped something.
Oh, thanks, Sofia.
Are you sure you want
to throw this away?
It looks like
an invitation!
It is! For a really
fantastic party.
But you love parties!
How come you're
not even opening this?
You want me to open it?
Okay, I'll open it.
"You are invited
to this year's
Dragon Roast 'n' Toast."
That sounds fun!
How could it
not be fun?
It's a giant picnic
for dragons from every kingdom!
It says they do things like
show off fire-breathing tricks.
And sing
dragon songs.
And do flying stunts.
And have the best time
they've ever had
in their entire lives!
It sounds like
you really want
to go
to the Roast 'n' Toast.
Oh, I do.
I really do, Sofia.
Then why don't
you just go?
Because everyone
is supposed to come
with their very
best dragon buddy,
and I don't have
a dragon buddy,
so I can't go.
You don't have
one single dragon friend?
I knew a lot of dragons
when I was a kid,
but back then I was shy
and, well, I just never
clicked with anyone.
But you're not shy anymore!
I'm sure if you went
to this Roast 'n' Toast
you'd make tons of friends!
Maybe, but I can't go!
Not without a buddy.
-I'll go with you.
-But only dragons are allowed.
Then I'll be
your dragon buddy.
I wish to be a dragon.
How did you do that?
My amulet lets me
turn into animals.
And it also
lets you be the most
amazing friend ever!
Thank you, Sofia!
I wish to be myself again.
Thank you!
So, when is the picnic?
Tomorrow, in the Kingdom
of Brazendell.
Can you meet me here
bright and early?
Sure. I'll just tell
my parents where we're headed.
Great! We can
fly over together,
and I'll teach you
some dragon songs
and fire tricks
on the way.
See you tomorrow!
( neighs )
Let's try our fire shapes
one last time.
Just pucker up
and blow!
( pfft )
Look! I got
some smoke that time.
Achoo!
Wow, Crackle,
your fire shapes
are really great.
Thanks! Hey, you think
that'll impress
the other dragons
and help me get some friends?
Um, I'm not sure
that's how you make friends.
Yeah, yeah, you're right.
I've gotta do something
really impressive.
I know! When we do
our flying tricks,
I'll do a quadruple
loop-de-spin!
I've never done it before,
but you spin like this,
then loop like that,
and then again like-- Whoa!
( grunts )
I just showed you
how not to do it.
What is this thing,
anyway?
I think it's decoration
for the Roast 'n' Toast.
Look down below!
We're here, Sofia!
-Yippee!
-Let's go!
Wow, I've never seen
so many dragons before.
Look, there's Smokelee!
And Willawing!
Let's go say hi.
Wait, wait, wait.
You can't!
You're supposed to be
Dragon Sofia,
who they've
never met before.
Oh, right.
Then I won't wave
to Nitelite
over there, either.
( sighs ) I can't believe
you have more dragon friends
than I do!
Well, let's do
something about that.
Why don't you go up
to someone and say hi?
Okay. Um...
( laughter )
( clears throat )
Hello, my name's--
-( high-pitched vocal note )
-What's that?
It's not a what,
it's a who.
-Look, there she is!
-Sizzle!
-What a star!
-Wait, all my friends.
I've got more
to show you. Watch this!
-( high-pitched vocal note )
-( applause )
That's Sizzle.
When we were kids,
she was the star
of every show,
had the widest wingspan,
knew all the best
fire tricks...
and she also had
the most friends.
Don't worry.
I have plenty more tricks
to show you later.
Crackle? Is that you?
Wow! I haven't seen you
in forever.
Hi, Sizzle. I was just telling
my friend here about you.
Oh! Did you mention
how I was always
the star of the show,
had the widest wingspan,
and knew all
the best fire tricks?
Yep, I think
I covered everything.
I also blew
the tallest plumes of fire.
Still do!
( high-pitched vocal note )
Wow. Congratulations?
Yeah, that's
great, Sizzle.
You're still
the best.
Oh, only at some things.
Okay, a lot of things!
-Ha-ha!
-( fire roaring )
Oh! It's The Duchess!
Who's The Duchess?
The leader
of all the dragons,
and the most
important dragon ever!
Fellow dragons, welcome
to this year's Roast 'n' Toast!
Up first, showing off
your fire-breathing skills.
Come on, gang,
hit me with your best spark.
Hark! Do mine eyes deceive me?
'Tis a gathering of dragons,
the same scary beasts
who had me banished.
( grumbles )
Ah, Basil,
my trusty steed,
methinks,
nay, meknows!
This is our chance
to get back at them!
I, the brave Sir Oliver,
shall single-handedly
ruin their picnic!
( maniacal laughter )
Okay, this is my chance
to impress everyone
with some
really great fire shapes
so they'll want
to be friends with me.
Here I go! Achoo!
Oh, I've never seen
a fire square before! Nice!
Thanks a bunch!
I've been practicing.
Is that right?
Well, so have I!
Sizzle, that's the best
fire shape I've ever seen!
( cheering )
I'm never gonna make
any friends at this rate.
Don't give up.
Why don't you try talking
to that nice dragon again?
Okay. Hi!
My name is--
Hey, guys! Don't you
just love The Duchess?
For sure! She's only
the most important
dragon ever.
Exactly, which is why
I'm so excited she asked me
to be her buddy
for the Roast 'n' Toast!
You're best buddies
with The Duchess?
The, The Duchess?
Wow! Good for you,
Sizzle.
Wait, it gets
even better.
The Duchess has taken me
under her wing
and is teaching me to be
the next leader of the dragons!
-That sounds...
-Incredible? It is!
She's teaching me
all sorts of fabulous
head-dragon-type stuff.
-Like what?
-How to create a wall of fire,
and how to flap my wings
so hard they make a tornado!
You know, important stuff
I'll need to know
if I ever have to defend
the dragon folk.
-Oh, you're so...
-Lucky? I know!
I mean, I'm best buddies
with the most important dragon
ever in the history of ever!
Oh, and it's getting her
even more dragon friends.
That's nothing, Sizzle.
My dragon buddy
is even more important
than The Duchess.
Pshaw. I doubt that.
Well, she is.
Because my buddy
is the Royal Dragon
of Enchancia!
-What?
-She's a royal dragon?
Of Enchancia?
Oh, that's fancy.
Yup! She even
has a castle.
No, wait.
She has ten castles!
And one of them
is made of gold.
-And diamonds!
-( all gasping )
So, uh, you think
you could introduce me?
Yeah, I want to see
a gold castle with diamonds.
Um, I've never even heard
of the Royal Dragon
of Enchancia.
Then I guess you don't know
everything, Sizzle.
Oh, now, excuse me.
My best buddy's looking for me,
and I don't want to keep
royalty waiting.
It looks like you're making
lots of dragon friends
over there, Crackle.
I am, Sofia!
This picnic is going
even better than I planned.
I'm so glad!
Hey, watch this!
I made a triangle!
I was trying to make a heart,
but still, I made something!
Just look at yon dragons,
Basil, cavorting about,
making dragony merriment.
All that is about to end.
These balloons of water
will burst above them
and douse
their fiery festivities!
( maniacal laughter )
( clicking )
This isn't working.
Blasted thing.
The trigger on the bowstring
must be jammed.
( whimpering )
They may have won
the battle, Basil,
but not the war!
A knight such as I
never admits defeat!
( The Duchess laughing )
Looking good, dragon folk!
Now that we're all
nice and warmed up,
it's time to do
some singing.
Come rest your tails
around the bonfire.
Hey, c-c-can we sit
by you guys?
Sure! We always have room
for new friends.
There's Smokewings
and Fire! Hi there!
Oh! Uh, dragons I've
never met before.
Who's that dragon
waving hi to us?
I heard Crackle say
she's the Royal Dragon
of Enchancia!
Ooh, how neat.
Hey, I wonder if she
knows Princess Sofia.
Now, who wants
to sing the first song?
Oh, me! Me!
Me, me, me!
But I always
go first!
Then maybe
it's Crackle's turn?
Yeah, maybe it is!
After all, back in Enchancia
I was the star
of the Leaf Song Festival.
Well, I've been the star
of lots of shows, too.
Have you ever performed
for the king and queen
of Enchancia? Because I have.
When did you do that?
And they gave me
a big trophy
for being the best singer
they ever heard, ever!
Crackle, can I talk
to you for a minute?
You never sang
for the king and queen
of Enchancia!
-I know that.
-Then why did you say you did?
I am so tired of Sizzle
always being the center
of attention.
I know if I could just show
the other dragons
that I'm good
at things, too,
then they'd want
to be friends with me!
You don't have to do
something big and flashy
to make friends, Crackle.
Just be yourself
and it'll happen!
You know what,
I'm just gonna start singing.
But not before
I start singing!
¶ I'm all fired up ¶
¶ Yeah ¶
( huffs )
¶ You've been there
and heard that ¶
¶ Now it's feeling
old hat ¶
¶ Time to try
something new ¶
¶ In a bright shade
of blue ¶
¶ Like you know who ¶
¶ I've got a treat
for you, lucky dragons ¶
¶ Your favorite star, Sizzle,
is fronting the show ¶
¶ Cut me some slack
if I do me some bragging ¶
¶ I'm a natural-born star ¶
¶ And this star's
gotta glow-oh-oh-oh ¶
¶ So let's go ¶
¶ Hey, I'm all fired up ¶
¶ Ready for my chance ¶
¶ I'm all fired up ¶
¶ Watch me sing and dance ¶
¶ I'm in center stage ¶
¶ Where I'm meant to be ¶
¶ And everyone here
loves looking at me ¶
¶ I love you right back
and with all modesty ¶
¶ I'm tip of the top
and I'm singing with glee ¶
¶ Check me out ¶
¶ Yeah ¶
¶ Hello there,
I'm still here ¶
¶ Let me make
myself clear ¶
¶ It's about time
that you learned ¶
¶ That it's finally my turn ¶
¶ So watch me burn ¶
-( coughs )
-( gasps )
¶ While she flames out,
I'm just getting started ¶
¶ And when I make a promise
I always come through ¶
¶ Sparring with me
is not for the faint-hearted ¶
¶ I've spent time at the top ¶
¶ And I sure like
the view-ooh-ooh-ooh ¶
¶ I sure do ¶
¶ But, hey, I'm still fired up
for a chance to prove ¶
¶ That I'm fired up
and I've got the groove ¶
¶ I'm so fired up ¶
¶ I'm in center stage
where I'm meant to be ¶
¶ And everyone here
loves looking at me ¶
¶ I love you right back
and with all modesty ¶
¶ I'm tip of the top
and I'm singing with glee ¶
-¶ Hey, I'm all fired up ¶
-¶ Check me out ¶
-¶ Yeah, I'm all fired up ¶
-¶ Wow, I'm all fired up ¶
-¶ Check me out ¶
( Sizzle sustains note )
Oh, Sizzle!
Why don't you sing us
another tune?
I'd be happy to, buddy.
Oh, I'm sorry,
Crackle.
Oh, it's okay, Sofia.
I should just get used
to not having any friends
when Sizzle is around.
( sprinkling )
Fear not, Basil.
I know just the thing
to ruin a dragon picnic-- ants.
Same destroyers of picnics
across the land!
( ants cheering, sniffing )
Go forth, tiny ones!
Follow my path
of breadcrumbs
and do your worst
to mine enemies!
( shrieking )
But they seem
to prefer sugar cubes
to breadcrumbs!
Leave my armor at once,
foul insects!
Please! ( shrieking )
All right, it's time
for the big aerial show!
I want to see
your best flips and spins.
Show your fellow dragons
what you got!
This is my last chance
to show everyone
that I'm even better
at flying than Sizzle,
which means I'd make
an even better friend
than her!
I was thinking you might
have more luck
making friends
if you weren't so worried
about impressing everyone.
Mm, yeah, I like
my plan better.
Let's do
some loop-de-loops!
Ooh-kay.
See, Sofia?
Someone's watching!
Do more!
Wow, look
at those moves!
She should be good.
She probably has servants
to teach her,
being the Royal Dragon
of Enchancia and all.
-The who?
-Meanwhile, I learned
my superstar flying moves
without any royal help,
thank you very much.
Well, I think it's
very impressive, Your Highness.
Uh, thank you.
Crackle, those dragons
think I'm the Royal Dragon
of Enchancia.
( gasps ) That is weird.
We should ignore them
and keep flying.
Did you have something
to do with this?
Is that why the dragons
have been fanning me
and bowing
to me all day?
Please, Sofia!
The Roast 'n' Toast
is almost over,
and I still haven't impressed
anyone enough to be my friend!
Can't you just pretend
to be the Royal Dragon,
just for a little while?
I'm sorry, Crackle.
I only turned into a dragon
so you could come here.
I don't feel right
lying about who I am
on top of that.
Fine, I'll just find
another way to impress everyone.
Watch this, everyone!
I'm going to do
the quadruple loop-de-spin!
-( gasping )
-But no one's ever
done that before!
I have! Loads of times!
Just watch!
Careful, Crackle!
Remember what
happened last time!
Whoa!
This isn't the kind
of attention I was hoping for.
Just lift your wings.
Huh! Look out!
( Sofia screaming )
Thank you, Ms. Duchess.
Princess Sofia,
what are you doing here?
-Uh, I--
-And why did Crackle say
that you were
the Royal Dragon of Enchancia?
You don't look
like a dragon...
at least, not anymore.
Ooh! My brain hurts.
She isn't a dragon!
Crackle was lying
all this time.
( murmuring )
Okay, okay.
You caught me.
I was lying about having
an important dragon friend,
because the truth is...
I don't have any
dragon friends at all.
Crackle, wait!
( sighs ) I knew I shouldn't
have come to this picnic.
( maniacal laughter )
( gasps )
Fear not, Basil.
We shall best these
dastardly dragons yet
by using my No-Blaze
Dragon-Proof Net.
Oh, no! I have
to warn the others!
Ooh! Was that last move
pretty amazing?
Or is it just me?
Everyone, everyone!
Please listen to me!
There's a big, bad knight
in the woods,
and he's coming
to get us!
( laughing )
Don't listen to her.
-This is just another one
of Crackle's lies.
-It is not!
Yeah, I'm sorry, Crackle,
but what you're saying,
it just doesn't
make any sense!
Yeah, dragons are friends
with the knights
here in Brazendell.
There's no reason
they'd attack.
But I'm telling
the truth!
You all have to leave,
or that knight will get you!
There you are!
Are you okay?
No! A knight is trying
to get the dragons,
but no one will believe me!
I was in the woods,
and I heard this big knight
with a yellow feather
talking to his horse, Basil--
Wait.
I know that knight!
It's Sir Oliver,
and he does not
like dragons.
-( maniacal laughter )
-( Basil neighing )
( screaming )
No need to panic.
I'll just burn
this net off.
It's not working!
Ah-ha! My net
is magically fireproof,
you overgrown iguanas!
This is what you get
for crossing a knight such as I.
( maniacal laughter )
That knight!
He has The Duchess!
He has everyone!
Can't you talk
to him, Sofia?
Tell him the dragons
weren't hurting anyone.
I know Sir Oliver,
and he won't listen to reason.
And the dragons
won't listen to me.
I don't know anything
about stopping knights.
-( gasps ) But Sizzle might.
-Huh? What do you mean?
The Duchess is training you
to lead the dragons.
She taught you
how to create a wall of fire!
-That's great!
-Oh, right.
And how to flap
your wings so hard
they make wind
like a tornado!
Those things will definitely
help us stop Sir Oliver.
Okay, well, the thing is
I don't actually know
how to do any of that.
What do you mean?
The Duchess taught you--
Nothing. She taught
me nothing, okay?
She hasn't
been training me
to lead the dragons
because...
I didn't have any friends
of my own to come with.
But you're always surrounded
by other dragons!
Oh, sure, they like
to watch me do stuff,
but when I'm not
putting on a show,
they just go away.
I can't believe you were
lying this whole time!
Yeah, well,
so were you!
Guys, that doesn't
matter right now.
You both made
a mistake,
but now it's time
to work together
to help our friends.
( maniacal laughter )
I'm up for that
if Sizzle is.
I was about to say
the same thing!
Good, because I
have an idea.
Yoo-hoo!
Sir Oliver!
Princess Sofia?
Well, I hope you're not here
to defend
these wretched dragons!
Oh, no, I'm here
to get your autograph.
When we first met,
I didn't realize
how famous you were!
How baffling.
I'm sure I mentioned it
quite a few times!
But I am happy
to oblige.
( giggling )
Give me that.
Sir...
Oliver.
( sustained high-pitched note )
My ears!
SOFIA: Now, Crackle!
One poorly executed
quadruple loop-de-spin
coming up!
We're free!
Nice going!
Please, that horrible high note
is intolerable!
( whimpers )
( Sizzle stops singing )
You did it, Crackle!
Now, drop that net
on Sir Oliver!
Wait! I take
it all back!
I love dragons!
Agh! Uh! Let me out,
you scaly snakes!
Actually, Sir Oliver,
I think it's time
you take a little trip.
Ladies?
( screams )
-( singing )
-Oh, my ears!
Thou hast wonnest this round!
But I shall winnest
the next!
-Yes!
-Whoo-how!
You were amazing, Crackle.
I think you actually
did the quadruple loop-de-spin!
Maybe. I lost count
of the loops,
but, Sizzle,
your singing, wow!
Let's hear it
for Sizzle and Crackle!
( cheering )
That really
saved the day!
( cheering )
Ha-ha! This is one picnic
we will never forget.
I'd like to thank
all three of you
for saving
our scaly hides.
To be honest, Auntie,
it was mostly Crackle
and Sofia.
Well, I'm proud
of all of you.
Fellow dragons,
it's time to end
this year's
Roast 'n' Toast
with some marshmallows
around the fire.
Who's in?
-I am!
-( murmurs of agreement )
Do you two want
to roast some marshmallows?
I do, but only
if my friend Crackle
comes with me.
Friend? You mean it, Sizzle?
I sure do. In fact,
next Roast 'n' Toast,
do you maybe wanna
come with me?
( gasps )
You bet I would!
I always said you were
a terrific dragon, Crackle,
and an even better friend.
You too, Sofia.
I mean it.
You were getting really good
at the dragon stuff.
Thanks! And I'm
not done yet.
I want to be
a dragon.
Aah! I did it.
I breathed fire.
You are
a royal dragon, Sofia!